Password Project Reflection

>For my password project, I wanted to be able to exercise both a knowledge of the six things and how to use CSS to create an aesthetically pleasing password generator that was equally functional. In my original project, I did not use the diceware software as instructed. Instead, I created a variable called var chars = with every character on the keyboard, created another variable to set the password length, and then used Math.random to go through each character out of the 12 and generate a random character. In my updated project, I used the same formatting as my previous project to make a cool-looking and colorful password generator using CSS. I created multiple boxes and two buttons- one to generate the password and one to copy the password, set their colors and dimensions, and then linked them to the HTML file. I also switched from having all my code on an HTML file to having the code on a separate script.js file. To use the diceware software, I downloaded a file that associated a random ordering of the numbers 1-6 with a word. With your help, we implemented the fetch command to retrieve the words. To randomize the numbers we created variables a-e using the let command and then used math random to shuffle the numbers 1-6. We learned that the formatting also had to be different than what was previously used because we were not using p5 (sorry) and the result looked like this: parseInt(Math.random()*6+1);. We then created a lookup Key with variables a-e and let our first word = lookup Key. To generate the entire password we repeated this process five times with a loop until we has a random password generated. Overall I really enjoyed this project and using my creativity to design the aesthetic of the generator. I think it gave me a good understanding of loops, functions, variables, and HTML/CSS formatting. 


